README.md, before:

# libfex

libfex is a cross-platform library for interacting with Allwinner chips in FEL mode. FEL is a low-level subroutine contained in the BootROM on Allwinner devices. It is used for initial programming and recovery of devices using USB.

## Features

- Scan and connect to Allwinner devices in FEL mode
- Read and write device memory
- Execute code in device memory
- Support for multiple processor architectures (ARM32, AARCH64, RISC-V32 E907)
- C language API interface
- Python bindings
- Rust bindings

## Build Guide

### Prerequisites

- CMake 3.11 or higher
- C compiler (GCC, Clang, MSVC, etc.)
- libusb development library

### Build Steps

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/libfex.git
cd libfex

# Create build directory
mkdir build
cd build

# Configure the project
cmake ..

# Build the project
cmake --build .
```

## Usage Examples

### C Language Examples

#### Scanning for Devices

```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include "libFEx.h"
#include "usb_layer.h"
#include "fel-protocol.h"

int main() {
    struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t ctx = {0};
    int ret = 0;

    // Scan for FEL devices
    ret = sunxi_scan_usb_device(&ctx);
    if (ret <= 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "ERROR: Can't get valid FEL device\r\n");
        return -1;
    }
    
    // Initialize USB
    ret = sunxi_usb_init(&ctx);
    if (ret <= 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "ERROR: FEL device USB init failed\r\n");
        return -1;
    }
    
    // Initialize FEL
    ret = sunxi_fel_init(&ctx);
    if (ret < 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "ERROR: FEL device init failed\r\n");
        return -1;
    }

    // Print device information
    printf("Found FEL device\n");
    printf("Magic: %s\n", ctx.resp.magic);
    printf("ID: 0x%08x\n", ctx.resp.id);
    // ... print more device information ...

    return 0;
}
```

#### Memory Read/Write

```c
// Write 32-bit value to specified address
uint32_t value = 0x12345678;
uint32_t address = 0x10000000;
sunxi_fel_writel(&ctx, value, address);

// Read 32-bit value from specified address
uint32_t read_value = sunxi_fel_readl(&ctx, address);
printf("Read value: 0x%08x\n", read_value);

// Write memory block
char buffer[1024] = "Hello, libfex!";
sunxi_fel_write_memory(&ctx, address, buffer, sizeof(buffer));

// Read memory block
char read_buffer[1024];
sunxi_fel_read_memory(&ctx, address, read_buffer, sizeof(read_buffer));
```

### Python Bindings

libfex provides complete Python bindings for all the core functionality of the library, making it easy to interact with Allwinner devices in FEL mode using Python.

#### Installation

Before building the Python bindings, ensure you have the following dependencies installed:
- Python 3.6 or higher
- pip
- libusb development library
- C compiler

```bash
# From the root directory of the repository
cd python
pip install .

# Alternatively, install in development mode
pip install -e .
```

For detailed build instructions and troubleshooting, please refer to the [BUILDING.md](python/BUILDING.md) file.

#### Basic Usage Example

```python
import libfex

# Create a FEL context object
ctx = libfex.Context()

# Scan for FEL devices
if libfex.scan_usb_device(ctx) <= 0:
    print("No FEL device found")
    exit(1)

# Initialize USB connection
if libfex.usb_init(ctx) <= 0:
    print("USB initialization failed")
    exit(1)

# Initialize FEL mode
if libfex.fel_init(ctx) < 0:
    print("FEL initialization failed")
    exit(1)

print("Successfully connected to FEL device")

# Initialize payload for specific architecture
# Available architectures: Arch.ARM32, Arch.AARCH64, Arch.RISCV32_E907
libfex.payloads_init(libfex.Arch.ARM32)

# Memory operations example
address = 0x10000000

# Write a 32-bit value
libfex.writel(ctx, 0x12345678, address)

# Read back the value
value = libfex.readl(ctx, address)
print(f"Read value: 0x{value:x}")

# Write a block of memory
buffer = b"Hello from libfex Python bindings!"
libfex.write_memory(ctx, address + 0x100, buffer)

# Read back the block
read_buffer = libfex.read_memory(ctx, address + 0x100, len(buffer))
print(f"Read buffer: {read_buffer.decode('utf-8', errors='ignore')}")

# Execute code at a specific address (use with caution)
# libfex.exec(ctx, code_address)
```

#### Python API Reference

The Python API mirrors the C API closely, providing the following key functions:

- `Context()`: Create a new FEL context object
- `scan_usb_device(ctx)`: Scan for USB devices in FEL mode
- `usb_init(ctx)`: Initialize USB connection to the device
- `fel_init(ctx)`: Initialize FEL mode on the device
- `writel(ctx, value, address)`: Write a 32-bit value to memory
- `readl(ctx, address)`: Read a 32-bit value from memory
- `write_memory(ctx, address, data)`: Write a block of data to memory
- `read_memory(ctx, address, length)`: Read a block of data from memory
- `exec(ctx, address)`: Execute code at the specified address
- `payloads_init(arch)`: Initialize payload for a specific architecture
- `payloads_readl(ctx, address)`: Read a 32-bit value using the current payload
- `payloads_writel(ctx, value, address)`: Write a 32-bit value using the current payload

The `Arch` dictionary provides architecture constants:
- `Arch.ARM32`: ARM 32-bit architecture
- `Arch.AARCH64`: ARM 64-bit architecture
- `Arch.RISCV32_E907`: RISC-V 32-bit E907 architecture

#### Example Script

A complete example script is available in the repository at `python/example.py`, demonstrating how to use the Python bindings to scan for devices and perform basic operations.

## API Reference

### Core Structures

- `struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t`: FEL context, containing device handle and response information
- `struct payloads_ops`: Payload operations structure, containing architecture type and read/write functions

### Main Functions

#### Device Operations
- `int sunxi_scan_usb_device(struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx)`: Scan for USB devices
- `int sunxi_fel_init(struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx)`: Initialize FEL context

#### Memory Operations
- `void sunxi_fel_writel(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t val, uint32_t addr)`: Write 32-bit value to specified address
- `uint32_t sunxi_fel_readl(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t addr)`: Read 32-bit value from specified address
- `void sunxi_fel_write_memory(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t addr, const char *buf, size_t len)`: Write memory block
- `void sunxi_fel_read_memory(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t addr, const char *buf, size_t len)`: Read memory block

#### Execution Operations
- `void sunxi_fel_exec(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t addr)`: Execute code at specified address

#### Payload Operations
- `void sunxi_fel_payloads_init(enum sunxi_fel_payloads_arch arch)`: Initialize payload for specific architecture
- `struct payloads_ops *sunxi_fel_get_current_payload()`: Get current payload operations
- `uint32_t sunxi_fel_payloads_readl(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t addr)`: Read 32-bit value using current payload
- `void sunxi_fel_payloads_writel(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t value, uint32_t addr)`: Write 32-bit value using current payload

## Supported Architectures

- ARM32
- AARCH64 (ARM64)
- RISC-V32 E907

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

Commit message:

Refactor: Rename the project from libfex to libefex and refactor the related code
Refactor the entire project by changing the project name from libfex to libefex, including:
1. Modify header file references and variable names in all source code files.
2. Update the CMake build system configuration.
3. Rename Python and Rust binding-related files.
4. Update the project name in documentation and example code.
5. Refactor the USB layer code structure and separate different implementations into subdirectories.
6. Standardize compiler macro naming conventions.

Additionally, optimize the code organization by separating the USB layer implementation into subdirectories

README.md, after:

# libefex

libefex is a cross-platform library for interacting with Allwinner chips in FEL mode. FEL is a low-level subroutine contained in the BootROM on Allwinner devices. It is used for initial programming and recovery of devices using USB.

## Features

- Scan and connect to Allwinner devices in FEL mode
- Read and write device memory
- Execute code in device memory
- Support for multiple processor architectures (ARM32, AARCH64, RISC-V32 E907)
- C language API interface
- Python bindings
- Rust bindings

## Build Guide

### Prerequisites

- CMake 3.11 or higher
- C compiler (GCC, Clang, MSVC, etc.)
- libusb development library

### Build Steps

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/libefex.git
cd libefex

# Create build directory
mkdir build
cd build

# Configure the project
cmake ..

# Build the project
cmake --build .
```

## Usage Examples

### C Language Examples

#### Scanning for Devices

```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include "libefex.h"
#include "usb_layer.h"
#include "fel-protocol.h"

int main() {
    struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t ctx = {0};
    int ret = 0;

    // Scan for FEL devices
    ret = sunxi_scan_usb_device(&ctx);
    if (ret <= 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "ERROR: Can't get valid FEL device\r\n");
        return -1;
    }
    
    // Initialize USB
    ret = sunxi_usb_init(&ctx);
    if (ret <= 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "ERROR: FEL device USB init failed\r\n");
        return -1;
    }
    
    // Initialize FEL
    ret = sunxi_fel_init(&ctx);
    if (ret < 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "ERROR: FEL device init failed\r\n");
        return -1;
    }

    // Print device information
    printf("Found FEL device\n");
    printf("Magic: %s\n", ctx.resp.magic);
    printf("ID: 0x%08x\n", ctx.resp.id);
    // ... print more device information ...

    return 0;
}
```

#### Memory Read/Write

```c
// Write 32-bit value to specified address
uint32_t value = 0x12345678;
uint32_t address = 0x10000000;
sunxi_fel_writel(&ctx, value, address);

// Read 32-bit value from specified address
uint32_t read_value = sunxi_fel_readl(&ctx, address);
printf("Read value: 0x%08x\n", read_value);

// Write memory block
char buffer[1024] = "Hello, libefex!";
sunxi_fel_write_memory(&ctx, address, buffer, sizeof(buffer));

// Read memory block
char read_buffer[1024];
sunxi_fel_read_memory(&ctx, address, read_buffer, sizeof(read_buffer));
```

### Python Bindings

libefex provides complete Python bindings for all the core functionality of the library, making it easy to interact with Allwinner devices in FEL mode using Python.

#### Installation

Before building the Python bindings, ensure you have the following dependencies installed:
- Python 3.6 or higher
- pip
- libusb development library
- C compiler

```bash
# From the root directory of the repository
cd python
pip install .

# Alternatively, install in development mode
pip install -e .
```

For detailed build instructions and troubleshooting, please refer to the [BUILDING.md](python/BUILDING.md) file.

#### Basic Usage Example

```python
import libefex

# Create a FEL context object
ctx = libefex.Context()

# Scan for FEL devices
if libefex.scan_usb_device(ctx) <= 0:
    print("No FEL device found")
    exit(1)

# Initialize USB connection
if libefex.usb_init(ctx) <= 0:
    print("USB initialization failed")
    exit(1)

# Initialize FEL mode
if libefex.fel_init(ctx) < 0:
    print("FEL initialization failed")
    exit(1)

print("Successfully connected to FEL device")

# Initialize payload for specific architecture
# Available architectures: Arch.ARM32, Arch.AARCH64, Arch.RISCV32_E907
libefex.payloads_init(libefex.Arch.ARM32)

# Memory operations example
address = 0x10000000

# Write a 32-bit value
libefex.writel(ctx, 0x12345678, address)

# Read back the value
value = libefex.readl(ctx, address)
print(f"Read value: 0x{value:x}")

# Write a block of memory
buffer = b"Hello from libefex Python bindings!"
libefex.write_memory(ctx, address + 0x100, buffer)

# Read back the block
read_buffer = libefex.read_memory(ctx, address + 0x100, len(buffer))
print(f"Read buffer: {read_buffer.decode('utf-8', errors='ignore')}")

# Execute code at a specific address (use with caution)
# libefex.exec(ctx, code_address)
```

#### Python API Reference

The Python API mirrors the C API closely, providing the following key functions:

- `Context()`: Create a new FEL context object
- `scan_usb_device(ctx)`: Scan for USB devices in FEL mode
- `usb_init(ctx)`: Initialize USB connection to the device
- `fel_init(ctx)`: Initialize FEL mode on the device
- `writel(ctx, value, address)`: Write a 32-bit value to memory
- `readl(ctx, address)`: Read a 32-bit value from memory
- `write_memory(ctx, address, data)`: Write a block of data to memory
- `read_memory(ctx, address, length)`: Read a block of data from memory
- `exec(ctx, address)`: Execute code at the specified address
- `payloads_init(arch)`: Initialize payload for a specific architecture
- `payloads_readl(ctx, address)`: Read a 32-bit value using the current payload
- `payloads_writel(ctx, value, address)`: Write a 32-bit value using the current payload

The `Arch` dictionary provides architecture constants:
- `Arch.ARM32`: ARM 32-bit architecture
- `Arch.AARCH64`: ARM 64-bit architecture
- `Arch.RISCV32_E907`: RISC-V 32-bit E907 architecture

#### Example Script

A complete example script is available in the repository at `python/example.py`, demonstrating how to use the Python bindings to scan for devices and perform basic operations.

## API Reference

### Core Structures

- `struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t`: FEL context, containing device handle and response information
- `struct payloads_ops`: Payload operations structure, containing architecture type and read/write functions

### Main Functions

#### Device Operations
- `int sunxi_scan_usb_device(struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx)`: Scan for USB devices
- `int sunxi_fel_init(struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx)`: Initialize FEL context

#### Memory Operations
- `void sunxi_fel_writel(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t val, uint32_t addr)`: Write 32-bit value to specified address
- `uint32_t sunxi_fel_readl(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t addr)`: Read 32-bit value from specified address
- `void sunxi_fel_write_memory(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t addr, const char *buf, size_t len)`: Write memory block
- `void sunxi_fel_read_memory(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t addr, const char *buf, size_t len)`: Read memory block

#### Execution Operations
- `void sunxi_fel_exec(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t addr)`: Execute code at specified address

#### Payload Operations
- `void sunxi_fel_payloads_init(enum sunxi_fel_payloads_arch arch)`: Initialize payload for specific architecture
- `struct payloads_ops *sunxi_fel_get_current_payload()`: Get current payload operations
- `uint32_t sunxi_fel_payloads_readl(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t addr)`: Read 32-bit value using current payload
- `void sunxi_fel_payloads_writel(const struct sunxi_fel_ctx_t *ctx, uint32_t value, uint32_t addr)`: Write 32-bit value using current payload

## Supported Architectures

- ARM32
- AARCH64 (ARM64)
- RISC-V32 E907

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request
